One basic idea, to kind of, as a tool, to
make a
lot of this stuff easier, is what's known
as Literate (Statistical) Programing.
And, this comes from the idea of literate
programming, in computer programs.
And so the idea is to think of the art-,
an article,
or a publication, or a report, as a stream
of text and code.
And, so the text is, kind of, readable
by people and the code is readable by
computers.
And then the idea is that the analysis is
described in a series of text and code
chunks.
And each kind of code chunk will do
something.
It'll load some data and compute results.
And each text chunk will kind of relay
something in a human readable language.
And so there are going to be presentation
code, that kind of formats tables and
figures.
There's article text that explains what's
going on around all this code.
And the idea is that this stream of text
and code
is a literate statistical program or a
liter, literate statistical analysis.
And these programs can be weaved to
produce human readable documents like PDFs
or
HTML web pages, and they can tangled
to produce machine-readable documents, so
machine readable code.
And so the basic idea behind literate
programming; is that if you need a
documentational language, that's human
readable and you
need a programming language that's machine
readable.
And so one of the original system's in R
that was designed to do this was called
Sweave.
And Sweave uses a documentation program
called
LaTeX, and a programming language,
obviously is R.
And it was developed by Fritz Leisch who
was a core member of
R, and is still maintained by R Core and
his website is listed here.
Now there are one, there are many
limitations to the original Sweave system.
One of which is focused primarily on LaTeX
which is not
a language, a documentation language that
many, many people are familiar with.
And so it can be difficult to learn this
type
of markup language if you're not all ready
in the field.
It lacks a lot of features that kind of
people want
like caching, and multiple plots per page
and mixing programming languages.
And so and it's not as frequently updated
or very actively developed.
And so one of the alternative that has
come
up in recent times is, is something called
knitr.
And the knitr package for R is basically,
kind of, takes a lot of
these ideas of literate programming and
kind
of updates them and improves upon them.
And there are a lot of kind of features
that
were added on to the Sweave original kind
of concept.
And so it's still, knitr still uses R as
its programming language,
but it allows you to mix a v, other
programming languages in.
And you can use a variety of documentation
languages now.
You can use LaTex, you can also use
something called Markdown and you can use
HTML.
And so knitr was developed by Yihui Xie
who was,
who was, while he was a graduate student
at Iowa State.
And it's become a very popular package for
doing literate statistical programs.
So just to summarize very briefly.
Reproducible research is a I, I think it's
an
important minimum standard for,
computationally intensive, types of
analysis.
And where replication is very difficult
or, if not impossible.
We still need quite a bit of
infrastructure and tools to kind
of create and distribute reproducible
documents,
and beyond what is currently available.
But that's kind of improving as the,
everyday and there
are lots of new tools kind of coming on
the scene.
So in the next lecture, I'll talk about
some of these tools.
In particular I'll talk about knitr.
And just to show how you can produce
reproducible documents.